Dark side of the Internet

  The author of the text poses a very important question to the reader: do we want the Internet
to be a place to expand our capabilities or do we want it to be a place of complete control 
of all network users, as well as a place where their personal data is traded?

  The choice of the author is obvious and I fully support his opinion. Once upon a time before
the advent of the World Wide Web, no one could imagine that in this way it would be possible
to control almost all users in the world, moreover, using very tricky methods for this. At the
same time, many do not even suspect that everything has been known about them for a long time, 
and not only to sites, which they go to. After all, everything that enters the Internet - remains
there forever. As the author correctly noted: "You become a manipulable data point at the mercy 
of big corporations who sell their ability to manipulate you based on the data you volunteer."
It is very good that Parymal Satyal gives very valuable tips on how to reduce the chances of
leaking your information to who knows where, as well as find out how much it really weighs 
webpage. However, not everyone will read his article, and it is not so easy to stop such
activities of websites and corporations.

There is also another problem: it is hard to imagine life without the Internet, especially 
without social networks such as Vkontakte, Instagram, Facebook and so on. Most users of 
the World Wide Web have been put into such a framework that they have no choice: they will have
nothing to do without the Internet. But a more significant problem is the dependence on social
networks. They come up with a huge number of ways to keep users as long as possible and make them
use their services. It is difficult for a person who has fallen into such an environment to get
out of it, because he does not want to lose everything: virtual communication, friends, likes
and so on. That is, this is another way to control people. However, the author believes that one
cannot exist without the other, and we are needed Besides, Facebook is bigger than it is to us.
Although some have a different vision regarding this.

In this way, the author encourages the reader to answer for himself the question posed at the very beginning.
For me the answer is: you need to properly use the resources provided by the Internet, as well as be 
able to allocate time and do something else besides gatherings in social networks.

